[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So I am a follower
of his, and support him,
and appreciate him.
And this is going to be another
amazing workshop with William
Henry.
>> Oh, thank you,
Debra, very much.
Thank you, everybody.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
So let's begin with
this wonderful image
of Quan Yin, the
bodhisattva of compassion
from the Buddhist tradition.
She's in an elevated state
of consciousness and ascended
realm.
She has got this
beautiful red sash
on that indicates she can
fly through the cosmos.
And she's surrounded
by rainbows.
And she's actually sitting in
a portal, references her status
as a rainbow light body being.
She's just beaming love
and compassion to us
through this image.
And for all intents and
purposes or for our purpose
today, we're going
to place ourselves
in the position of
the two acolytes
who are just on the
edge of her portal,
just on the edge
of her frequency.
They're not in it,
because maybe they're
not quite at that place.
But they are certainly aspiring
to get as close to Quan Yin
as they possibly can.
And that is our goal, too.
We want to be beings that have
more love, more compassion,
maybe with a few rainbows
thrown in as well.
And so one way that we
can connect with Quan Yin
is to mirror what we see in the
images that we're looking at.
So we have these
two acolytes who
are almost opening their hands
in a reiki position, aren't
they?
They're receiving some
vibration from Quan Yin.
They're in an open
and receptive place.
And so let's just take a moment
now to raise our own hands,
to open our own palms to
the frequency, the vibration
of Quan Yin and what
that means to us
personally to get that
sense of deep compassion
in our own life, maybe
thinking of a time when
we experienced
unconditional love
or expressed unconditional love.
And let's just take a moment
to put ourself in that space,
so that we can then move forward
a little closer to Quan Yin's
frequency.
So that feels good, huh?
Just opens us up, opens the
heart, puts us in that place,
and then prepares us
even for the next step
to connect with, as Quan
Yin does, our true nature,
our Buddha nature, which is what
we see here as the Shakyamuni
Buddha in a lotus position,
radiating light, also
in his light body.
And the idea, once again,
is that through the image,
we can connect with the Buddha.
And this is
something we're going
to elaborate on and provide
the science behind it, of how
an image can act as a conduit to
an avatar or an ascended being.
This is an ancient
practice that we're
reviving in the modern world
and now bringing together
with it the incredible
science that validates
exactly how that's possible.
And I love this
image of the Buddha,
because he's making
eye contact with us.
We are not only
present to the Buddha,
but he is present in
the room right now,
according to the principle
of the art of ascension
as we're going to elaborate.
And one of the key things
that we're seeing here
is that he is, again,
making eye contact with us.
Why is it so important to make
eye contact with an image?
Well, because the eye is the
window to the soul, right?
And so by having that
eye to eye contact,
it's actually a
soul to soul contact
that we are making at this
moment with the Buddha.
So Quan Yin has opened the
frequency for us, brought us
into a little more
compassionate frequency.
Now, we're in a place where we
can connect with the Buddha.
I wanted to spend just
a moment elaborating
on the imagery of Quan Yin.
As an art historian, I'm always
looking for the ultimate image
to share with you
and then trying
to connect various
traditions from the Buddhist,
to the Christian, to the
Egyptian, to the Tibetan,
to the Mayan, all
across the world,
looking how they
share a similar story.
So in this image here, we
see Quan Yin holding a child.
She's a goddess of compassion.
Also, some say she's a
goddess of childbirth as well.
And so in China
and in Japan, you
will find these wonderful
images of Quan Yin.
She's also called Chenrezig.
She's called Avalokitesvara.
And she is holding
this child in her arms,
cuddling it just
like the Virgin Mary.
Exactly like the Virgin Mary.
But what a lot of
people don't appreciate
is that the imagery
of Quan Yin actually
were derived from the
images of the Virgin Mary.
Around the third
or fourth century,
the earliest Christians high
tailed it out of Jerusalem,
and hit the Silk Road,
and went to Tibet,
and went to China in
these areas bringing
Christianity with them.
And along with them, they
brought their artwork.
So here, we see the
Virgin Mary, obviously
holding the baby
Jesus in her hand.
He's got in his hand a blue
orb, maybe a blue apple that
symbolizes the power
of resurrection,
which is what ultimately he
came to Earth to teach us.
And much like the Virgin
Mary-- and this is the key.
The Chinese Quan
Yin is said to have
lived a human life of extreme
self-sacrifice and holiness
before she herself
ascended into heaven
and became the celestial
goddess of mercy and compassion.
So at one point, Quan
Yin, like the Virgin Mary,
had a human incarnation
and went along
her path of ascension,
her hero's journey,
and ultimately, ascended to
the pure land of Buddhism
where she presently
is said to dwell,
just as Mary is the
first Christian to ascend
and ascended to the Christian
heaven, a place called Scion.
So that is a very
important aspect of this.
And I love the divine
feminine images
that are reflective of
the ascension process.
Always like to present that.
And as we look in
the detail here,
we see this wonderful
image of Quan Yin wearing
this transparent linen robe.
And as we come in
on this robe here,
we see that it's actually
covered with orbs of light
that symbolize stars.
Don't you just want
to reach in there
and put that robe on yourself?
Right?
And feel what it
must be like to wear
it-- be wearing a robe of
stars or a robe of light.
And that is, of
course, the key image
in many of the
ascension traditions
and which is why Mary wears
a row of stars as well.
Because it indicates
that she is in her star
body, her light body,
her resurrection body,
her glory body.
She's in her ascended frequency.
In the 17th century, we
find this image of Quan Yin.
She's sitting on a throne with
two acolytes on either side.
She's sitting on a dragon, just
like the Virgin Mary is always
shown standing on a
dragon symbolizing
the earthly forces of
negativity, but also,
her ability to raise
kundalini as well.
And again, this
image of Quan Yin
is entirely derived from
Christian images of Mary
sitting on the throne,
which a little tip here.
We won't elaborate on it.
But we do know that the
throne that Mary sits on
is called the Throne of
Solomon, the Throne of Wisdom.
The Essenes called
it the Merkaba.
So when you're looking at images
with an awakened or enlightened
eye of Mary sitting
on the throne,
you know that this
isn't an ordinary throne
like the Queen of
England would sit on.
In fact, the Queen
of England's throne
is actually modeled after
the Throne of Solomon, which
is actually for the insiders.
We know that's
actually the Merkaba
throne, the celestial chariot.
That's what the
word Merkaba means,
a celestial throne chariot.
So this isn't an ordinary
throne that she's sitting on.
She's actually an exemplar
of the Essene Mystery School
tradition, which
was all entirely
devoted to attaining
the light body
and ascending on
the Merkaba throne.
In this image here, it's derived
from the Book of Revelation,
where John the Revelator,
also an Essene initiate,
described the holy of holies
of the Celestial City,
the new Jerusalem,
or Scion, which
was the target of the
Essene ascension mysteries.
They were trying to
transform their earthly flesh
into celestial
flesh, so that they
could dwell in this
Celestial City, which
they said was inhabited.
So on the left-hand side, we
see Mary on the Merkaba throne.
We see John the Divine
holding a grail cup.
And on the right, we
see John the Revelator,
who is obviously in a state
of ecstasy or in a trance.
He's got an open book--
the Book of Revelation.
And he's gone over the rainbow
bridge of consciousness.
And he's peering into this
higher dimensional realm.
He's having a vision or
a visionary experience
of Scion or the new Jerusalem.
And it's entirely other worldly.
It's peopled by
extraordinary beings
and also ascended humans.
So he crosses over the
rainbow, like Dorothy,
and he describes that
there was a throne of God--
the Merkaba.
When the Essenes are ascending
to the throne of God,
they're ascending
to the Merkaba,
which exists in this
higher dimensional realm.
He describes servants
stood in a place
of perpetual heavenly light.
Extraordinary description.
Because in the
"Dead Sea Scrolls,"
the Essenes were saying
part of their mission
was to bathe Earth in
perpetual heavenly light.
Not to necessarily go somewhere,
but to transform Earth
into a planet of righteousness,
a higher frequency
planet that was bathed in
perpetual heavenly light.
And just let that roll
through your imagination,
what it would feel like if our
planet were suddenly bathed
in perpetual heavenly light.
It'd be a completely
different world
that we would be living in.
And so as John goes
over the rainbow,
he sees Christ enthroned
on the Merkaba,
on the celestial throne
chariot with various beings--
saintly beings, guitar players.
I'm sure it's Jimmy Page.
It's Jimi Hendrix.
It's gotta be, right?
Eddie Van Halen, all with
their guitars in their hand.
They're rocking out.
Because they're at
the throne of Christ.
They've completed their
earthly ascension cycle.
They're over the rainbow.
And they are now in
the celestial Zion.
And so John in this image,
very much like you and I,
are actually present
in that throne.
We're looking at
this image of Christ.
We're tapping into it.
But Christ is also
looking back at us.
And I know that sounds
a little bit nuts,
but we're going to explain
how and why that is possible.
As the Book of Hebrews says--
and the Book of Hebrews
is an Essene ascension manual.
It was meant to be rehearsed
over and over again.
The Essenes, like
later the Cathars,
would use these texts
as guided visualizations
so that they could
concretize the ascension
journey in their
minds, so that they
knew exactly what
was going to happen
in their afterlife journey.
They had modeled it.
They had wired
their brain for it.
They had connected
their soul to it.
So it was like me leaving this
room, walking out of the hotel,
catching the shuttle, going over
to LAX, and flying home, right?
That is essentially-- they would
rehearse the heavenly journey
over and over and over again,
until they absolutely embodied
it.
And they knew that once they
completed their ascension,
that they would go to this
place that was populated by,
as Hebrews says, innumerable
company of angels
and just humans made perfect.
Just humans made perfect.
Well, who are these people?
And how did they become perfect?
What does this mean?
Well, when you look up
the meaning of the word
"just," it means upright,
righteous, and balanced.
And just in this case
doesn't mean they're
only humans made perfect.
They're just.
They're righteous.
They're holy people.
They're humans, which means
they're a member of the species
Homo sapien.
And here's a punchline for you.
They're not animal,
divine, or machine,
which we won't get into
the AI aspect of this.
But can a transhuman ascend?
According to this,
no, you cannot.
They're made, meaning
they're shaped or formed.
And they're perfect,
meaning they're complete.
They're fully developed.
They're whole.
They're holy.
They're 360.
And they're effectively what
I would term "I am-plus."
They are more than human.
They are just
humans made perfect.
And in the Essene
tradition, this
is our goal, is to become
more whole, more holy, more
complete, and indeed, perfect.
And I use the term 360,
because that comes from a text
that the Essenes actually read.
It's called the
"Epic of Gilgamesh."
It's the world's
second oldest story.
And essentially, it's
an ascension story
where an Iraqi king
named Gilgamesh
is on his ascension path.
And he gets a lucky break when
the goddess Inanna comes to him
and tells him, brother, you're
2/3 divine and 1/3 human.
And if you try to go through
the gate of the gods--
which is his attempt in the
"Epic of Gilgamesh--" as 2/3
human and 1/3 divine,
it's going to be
like walking into a blender.
You're going to get
your feathers ruffled.
So what you want to do before
you go through that gate
is to clean up your act, to go
from 2/3 divine and 1/3 human
to 360.
Now, if divinity is
symbolized by a circle--
and a circle is 360 degrees.
If we're 2/3 human
and 1/3 divine,
that means we start out
at about 240 out of 360.
And our quest then is to move
the needle to become 360.
And the way we do that is by
changing what we're doing,
right?
This was the message
to Gilgamesh.
But if he keeps doing the
same things that he's doing,
he's not going to be able
to get through the gate.
So all of us are charged in
our own personal experience
to figure out, how can we
go from 240, 280, 290, 320,
to 360?
And part of what
we have to do is
to begin to connect with a
vision of what our life will
be like when we are at 360.
And for many of us, it's going
to be individually specific.
But there are also keys
that we get from ancient art
and traditions that tells
us what a fully functioning
human being actually can do.
And one of the things a fully
functioning human being can do
is adopt a consciousness
similar to that of Christ
and to have superhuman
powers, ascension powers.
What we're looking at
here is a correspondence
between the Buddhist tradition
and the Christian tradition.
This is the Dalai Lama looking
up, visualizing his connection
with Quan Yin.
So he's sitting in a state of
visualization or meditation,
deep gamma, perhaps,
looking up at this orb
of rainbow-colored light,
just exactly like John
the Revelator is,
crossing over the rainbow
bridge of consciousness and
having a vision of Christ
in the very same rainbow.
It's the exact same scene.
And what this illustrates for
us is one form of practice
for awakening to
one's true nature
in Buddhism that's highly
respected by Buddhists,
is connecting with the qualities
of an enlightened being,
one who is already awake
and then modeling what
they are doing as an
example and an inspiration.
So this is what this
Dalai Lama is doing.
He is actually visualizing Quan
Yin in her ascended rainbow
light body.
And he's contemplating,
meditating, and reflecting on,
what is it that Quan Yin
has in her ascended state
that I don't have?
She's a 360 being.
She is "I am-plus."
He isn't.
He's trying to get on this path.
And one key here is that
whenever the Dalai Lamas were
taught how to attain this
elevated state of being,
this rainbow light body, they
were never taught with texts.
There are no books you can
read about how to attain
your rainbow light body.
The Dalai Lamas, instead, would
be taken out behind the Potala
Palace when they were in Tibet
into a circular room that
is 360 degrees
covered with images.
And they were taught the rainbow
light body through images.
This is because the higher
dimensional rainbow light
body beings could manifest
through those images
and connect with the
consciousness of the Dalai
Lamas and perhaps give
them downloads or transmit
frequencies to them.
So this is why my emphasis is
on the art of living ascension.
Because it is the
art, the image that
shows us the way as the
"Gnostic Gospels" say.
And there's a science, a sacred
science behind all of this
that we're trying to recover
and share in the modern world.
In his book, the teaching
on Chenrezig sadhana,
Kalu Rinpoche
said, "One does not
think of the deity's body--"
in this case, Quan Yin--
"as solid or material
made of flesh and blood
like one's ordinary body or made
of metal or stone like an idol.
One thinks of it
as appearance that
is inseparable from
emptiness like a rainbow
or like a reflection
in a mirror."
And that is one of
the key concepts here
is that we are instructed
to look at Quan Yin
as if we are
looking in a mirror.
And then we are to mirror
what we are seeing, feeling,
or otherwise experiencing.
The image that's visualized
in this meditation
practice-- and this is
a meditation practice
that I'm offering here.
This is another
tool in your kit.
No matter what
else you're doing--
yoga, meditation,
fasting, any other tool
that you're using
to cleanse, purify,
raise your frequency-- this
is another tool for your kit.
And so the image that's
visualized in the meditation
practice is not
a real person who
happens to be perfect
in every imaginable way.
It's an image.
It's an image and
an imaginary form
with certain
wonderful qualities.
She radiates
rainbow color light.
And if she were to manifest
in this room right now
and it was dark, she
would be glowing.
She would be luminous.
She'd be radiant, be
literally a being of light.
So what I'm encouraging
you to do here--
and maybe you'll take
out your cell phone,
take a quick photo--
is that this is one
way that you can
connect with this vibration of
Quan Yin is through the image.
Several years ago, they
said the average person
looks at their cell
phone 200 times a day.
It's probably a lot more now.
And so just imagine
if half of that time,
you're looking at
your starting screen
on your phone or your computer.
And you're connecting
with Quan Yin,
just taking that moment
to reflect on that.
I mean, I had a
medical doctor that's
known me for a long time.
She said, boy, you've really
changed in the past 10 years
since I've known you.
And you've grown a lot lighter.
And how are you doing that?
I said, well, I don't know.
I've just spent hours every day
staring at my computer screen,
working on presentations.
And I'm always connecting
with these beings.
Perhaps that's-- what I'm
saying to you is working for me.
I hope so.
Because I will continue
to do it, right?
So what I'm wanting
to suggest here
is that we can connect with
these higher dimensional beings
through the image.
And this isn't me speaking.
What we're going to see is that
this story is told repeatedly
throughout time.
For at least 4,000,
5,000 years, they've
been talking, that
this is how we
connect with the divine beings.
Art is the primary
and most direct
conduit that we can have
with these celestial beings.
So I've been very
fortunate as I've
been going around giving
these presentations,
developing a reputation for
the art of ascension-type guy.
I have developed
wonderful contacts
at Sotheby's, and Christie's,
and some of the major auction
houses--
Bonhams in London
And these are places
where art flows
through that will blow your
mind, that you will never see.
Because some of it has come
from private collections,
even in some monasteries.
And it goes into
private collections
or wealthy collectors.
And we will have no idea
what's actually out there.
I can give you a taste of it.
And some of these images that
I'm sharing with you today
came from Sotheby's
and especially this one
here, where we see
this bodhisattva
in his twirling
rainbow light body gone
into this-- the pure
land, connecting
with other bodhisattvas.
And we see this guy with
this red sash on him.
He's one of the
Tibetan mystic flyers.
The Tibetans have this whole
tradition that all of us
have the ability to fly if
we just would take the time
to activate that ability.
It's a natural human
ability to be able to fly.
And that's what that
red sash indicates,
just as it's a
natural human ability
to be able to dissolve
our flesh and blood
body into our celestial
body, our rainbow light body.
It's just like a caterpillar
morphs into a butterfly.
Our DNA is hard wired
for this experience.
But it's our culture that tells
us, like the two caterpillars
I saw once in a cartoon, looking
up at a butterfly, saying,
you'll never get me up
in one of those things.
Because that's what
our culture says.
Who do you think you are?
Perfect?
What do you think you are?
Nobody is perfect.
That's the constant
refrain of our culture.
And we've completely misaligned
the understanding of the word
perfect to begin with.
It means whole, holy,
complete, and compassionate.
It doesn't mean perfect, like
we all understand it to mean.
So everybody can become
more whole, more holy,
more complete, more
compassionate, and therefore,
more perfect than
they presently are.
And perfect light beings--
and this is what the Essenes
called the ascended beings--
perfect light humans.
The immovable race of
perfect light humans
was the distinction they had
for this extraterrestrial race.
And so here, we
see another example
here of a bodhisattva,
possibly even Quan Yin,
in the rainbow light body with
this swirling energy radiating
from her body.
And one thing that happened in
my path that I love to share
and I'm glad to have an
opportunity to do so today
is back in 2003, it was one
of my first visits to Egypt.
I'm on a cruise ship in Luxor.
And I'm just-- had this
mind-blowing experience
in Egypt already.
The cruise director calls
me on the phone and says,
we're ready for the
belly dancer now.
Why don't you come down?
And I'm like, oh,
man, I'm so tired.
I don't want to go see
a belly dancer tonight.
The cruise guy called
me three times.
And finally, I'm like, OK, I'll
come watch the belly dancer.
And so I go into the lounge.
And here, it's not
a belly dancer.
It's a whirling dervish dancer.
And he's performing an
800-year-old mystic Islamic
dance where he takes his skirt.
He's spinning in place,
going into a deep state
of meditation.
And he's spinning.
And all of a sudden, I hear this
crashing sound on the floor,
and it's my jaw.
Because I'm thinking, that's
Elijah in the whirlwind.
That's all of these
biblical stories
of Ezekiel going
up into the heavens
in a spinning
wheel of some kind.
And he's turning his
body into this Merkaba.
This is what he's
demonstrating here.
It's very clear.
And then it gets
even more incredible
when he takes out
his second skirt
and starts spinning it in
a counterclockwise fashion.
And I realize, that's
the shape of a wormhole.
He has just turned his
body into a wormhole, which
is absolutely mind blowing.
And then afterword,
what happens is
that his assistant
comes out, provides him
with this linen shroud.
He takes his second skirt,
wraps it into a bundle,
and then they wrap the linen
shroud around the bundle.
And they feed it milk.
And it's like, what's
the message for us?
Well, part of the
message is, where did you
come from, before you got here?
Right?
And when you decide you're
going to leave here,
where are you going?
And how are you
going to get there?
Right?
And the answer is we
come through wormholes.
And so in the Sufi
tradition, which
is the mystic Islamic
tradition going back 800 years,
they have this
incredible tradition
started by the poet Rumi
who is a Islamic mystic
of these whirling dervishes,
who go into these trances
and spin these--
just scarves and
wrappings around them.
And it's very clear that
what we're looking at
is an Islamic version of what?
>> Activating the Merkaba.
>> Activating the Merkaba,
the rainbow light body.
Exactly.
So we've just crossed over
from the Christian tradition
through the Tibetan
tradition into mystic Islam.
And they're all
telling the same thing.
Our body is capable
of being transformed
into a higher or ascended form.
And we need to learn
how to do that.
And they've been encoding
it in their sacred art
and in the Islamic tradition
and within a sacred dance.
This rainbow light
body is what we
need to get more in touch
with on our ascension path.
It is our true nature,
according to the Buddhists.
It's who we truly are.
Deep inside you is
this being of light.
The rainbow light body
isn't something you go get.
It's something that
you already are,
that is covered over
by misperceptions,
by negative thought forms,
by culture that says,
you are actually just this, OK?
And the fact of
the matter is, is
that all of these
sacred traditions
tell us that this
is who we truly are,
this rainbow light
body being within us.
This is Padmasambhava.
He's a Tibetan guru,
came from India to Tibet
in the 8th century.
He actually came from
some celestial realm.
What happened in my journey is
that I was at a UFO conference,
not long after I
took those photos
I just showed you of the
whirling dervish dancer.
And a couple came
up to me and said
they both had PhDs from the
Harvard Divinity School.
Their specialty is the
rainbow light body.
They translate Tibetan
text for the Dalai Lama.
They've been doing this
for a very long time,
and that my work in
Egypt answered for them
a question that the
Tibetans couldn't answer.
Because they didn't
know the answer
or wouldn't answer,
because it's secret.
And that was this.
And they asked me then
if I knew anything
about the rainbow light body.
And I didn't.
This was my first
introduction to it.
And they explained to
me that Padmasambhava
came from the stars,
came to Tibet,
and taught this principle that
the human body is designed
to have its frequency
accelerated, until it dissolves
into five-colored rainbow
light, leaving behind only hair,
toe, and fingernails, which
have no nerves to be transmuted.
And I'm blown away.
It's like, wow,
that's incredible.
And what does that have
to do with my work?
Right?
And they said, well,
here's the thing.
What the Tibetans teach is that
once we attain-- oh, excuse me,
let me go back--
the rainbow light body,
then we have the ability
to travel to one of
12 other star systems
where this teaching is taught.
And what this couple
wanted to know,
which was unknown or secret,
was, how do they get there?
Once they obtain the
rainbow light body
and can travel to and from
these other star systems,
how do they get there?
And then they said they're
watching my presentation
on ancient Egyptian
starwalkers, where
I was talking about the
ancient Egyptian starwalking
in stargate imagery.
And they said that
was the answer,
that they've
actually-- are turning
their body into a wormhole.
They opened the wormhole through
their body, beamed themselves
to another star system.
And then they can take on
a flesh and blood body.
Once again, they can phase back
into a flesh and blood body
if they choose to.
And the main justification
for choosing to do this
was that then they could be
like the greatest antenna
or beamer of
compassion possible.
And that is the
reason for incarnating
in a flesh and blood body.
So I'm blown away.
And this sends me off
on a whole new path
to match up the Tibetan
rainbow light body teachings
with what I'm discovering
and researching
in Egypt and elsewhere.
And so I'm going to share
some of that with you
as we continue.
But again, here's Padmasambhava
in his rainbow light body,
once again, making eye
to eye contact with us,
present in the
room with us, just
as we are present before
him at this very moment.
We are seeing him.
He is seeing us.
And this is why it's
so important that--
I love it every time
I'm anywhere and I see,
especially a woman or a young
female, in her yoga outfit.
Because it tells me, hey,
there is real hope here.
Because suddenly, we've got
tens of millions of people
around the world practicing
yoga and meditation.
Whether they are
aware of it or not,
what they are actually
doing is morphing
into their rainbow light body.
Every time they're doing yoga,
every time they're meditating,
every time they're
setting that intention,
they're actually calling
in their higher self,
be it White Tara as
we see here, or Quan
Yin, or any other divine
figure, even Mary.
That is the ultimate
goal of that practice.
So it gives me great hope
that during this time,
we are going to see some
incredible manifestations
of the rainbow light body.
Because we're building this
incredible bubble of frequency
around our planet where
people can tap into it.
And we are, perhaps, not just
the forerunners or wayshowers.
We could be the actual
exemplars for all
of future humanity of
what is possible for us,
once we set ourselves
on becoming more
whole, holy, complete,
compassionate, perfect,
and "I am-plus."
What you notice in this
image of White Tara, which
is right over here
at LACMA, by the way,
the LA County
Museum of Art, she's
got her rainbow britches on.
So she's obviously in
her rainbow light body.
And she's wearing
her red sash that
indicates that she can fly.
And she is an exemplar of
a whole, holy, complete, or
perfected being.
According to
Buddhism, each of us
holds within us an
exhaustless source
of compassion and wisdom.
Every one of us.
And the question is,
how do we tap into that?
All we need to do is to connect
with our most essential nature,
they tell us.
And that is our
rainbow light body.
That is our true self.
But it's been covered
over, as I said,
by negative emotions, false
perceptions, and especially,
culture.
Here's a key.
According to Hindu
Buddhist thought,
everything that we see around
us is maya or illusion.
It's maya or illusion.
How do we overcome
maya or illusion?
The way I offer
as an explanation
or a positive pathway
is through this--
12 lines projected
on a screen that's
brought to life in
your imagination
as a three-dimensional
cube, right?
That's what it really
is, taking a step back.
So if this
three-dimensional cube
is 12 lines projected
on a screen brought
to life in your imagination,
then what is the chair
you're sitting on?
>> The same thing.
What is the apple you just
took a big bite out of?
Right?
It's a collection of atoms,
molecules, energy and motion,
all brought to life
in our imagination.
So if everything is brought
to life in our imagination,
then this cube also gives
us another valuable insight.
Because as you can
see, if you look at it
from one perspective,
it looks like you're
looking into the cube, right?
Then if you shift
your perspective,
now it looks like you're
looking down into the cube.
And a completely
different box appears.
Can you you all see
it shift or jump?
But to me, this cube
demonstrates or shows us the
only two ways that we
perceive everything out here.
Every single moment of our
lives, we're bringing things--
what's out here to life
in our imagination.
And we're making a choice.
Are we going to put fear
into what we're experiencing?
Or are we going to put love
into what we are experiencing?
Right?
Those are the only two choices
we have every single moment
of our lives.
And so if love, peace, joy,
happiness, wholeness, holiness,
perfection, 360, "I
am-plus" is our goal.
And we're down here going, well,
I'm not sure if I can do that.
And, oh, I've got an appointment
in five minutes-- or whatever.
We're not going to
get there, right?
Because the golden rule
says what we put out
is what we get back.
So our goal-- and
this is, I think,
one of the most important
reasons why we incarnate
on Earth is it's a sort of
a cosmic kindergarten for us
to manifest or
understand this principle
and how powerful our
thoughts and emotions are.
Because as we've noticed, our
world is accelerating, right?
And if you can't handle your
emotions now, what do you think
is going to happen
in a few years
when we're screaming
down the highway?
Right?
This is why this is so important
for us to get a handle on.
Because the idea is that as
we expand in our awareness
and consciousness, our
three-dimensional cube
which represents our
world becomes the core
of a fourth-dimensional
hypercube
with all kinds of
parallel worlds
suddenly impinging on our
consciousness and all kinds
of opportunities for expanding
our consciousness being
presented to ourselves.
Does that makes sense?
So this is where many of us
are already at right now.
We've transcended the 3D world.
And now we're going into
the 4D and five 3D world.
And so those are
the pioneers that
are mastering the power of
their thought and emotion
and recognizing the illusory
nature of our world.
You've heard of living
outside the box.
The ascended beings live as
if there is no box, right?
That's the big flip.
That's one way
you will know when
you have accomplished
your ascension is you're
no longer living in the box.
So to the question-- when
did this illusion begin?
Well, Buddhism teaches
that the second we
veiled our pure Buddha nature,
our rainbow light body,
with a fundamental
mistake, the notion of "I,"
and separated ourselves
from everything out here,
that's when the illusion began.
That's when the illusion began.
We are taught, I am
separate from this stage,
from this chair, from my
computer, and so forth.
But really, we're
all the same thing.
All indeed one.
Creation is happening
at every single second.
And that is what starts
to give us some--
if I can use the word control
or ability to navigate
this illusory realm.
In the Buddhist view, there
are three kinds of dreams--
the dream of
nighttime, which ends
with daylight, the
dream of Earth lifetime,
which ends with death, and the
dream of ignorance or samsara,
which ends with enlightenment.
And that is our
goal-- enlightenment
and ascension are
essentially synonymous.
The way out is to wake
up completely returned
to our true nature as
rainbow light body beings
as it was in the
original beginning,
before the "I" separated us
from everything out here.
And we became deeply
lost or enmeshed
in this illusory world.
And there are many ways
to remind ourselves
of our true nature of our
rainbow light body selves.
Among them are meditation,
prayers, recitation of mantras,
construction of inspiring
or sacred places,
visiting sacred places, which
is why my wife Claire and I
love taking people to
England, Italy, France, Egypt.
Going to Israel later this
year to walk in these paths.
Because we know that connecting
with these sacred places
feeds our light body.
That's why we go, right?
It's not to have a
wonderful holiday.
It's to feed our souls
and awaken our light body.
But above all,
according to Buddhism,
the number one way
to remind yourself
of your true nature,
your light body self,
is meditation on sacred images.
It's not my opinion.
This is what the Buddhism--
teaching a very long time.
So for example, this image
of the standing Buddha
is a good example
where the Buddha
has got his palm open to you,
transmitting frequencies,
vibrations of your
true nature to you.
In the yogic tradition,
they call this ekagrata,
or one pointedness
meditation on sacred images.
When the devotee-- you and I--
places our self before a sacred
image, the task of the devotee
is to recognize the
illusory division between us
and the deity ourselves and
to transcend that illusion.
And in so doing, we are
connected with the Buddha.
And when we
single-mindedly contemplate
on the magnificence
of the Buddha's image,
we are practicing,
as I said, ekagrata.
And when we do this
repeatedly over time,
the image of the Buddha
stays constantly in our mind.
We are rewiring
our brain to match
the frequency of the Buddha.
This is how they would do it.
No texts involved, just simple
contemplation, meditation,
and reflection on the
image of the Buddha
until your brain is so
connected with that,
that you actually become it.
How much easier do
you want it to be?
Right?
Who needs to sit in
a cave for 40 years?
You don't need to.
You just need to get the right
images in your consciousness
and rewire your
brain to match what
we are seeing in these images.
This is a major practice.
And the Tibetans actually--
they call it merit.
You're getting merit every time
you look at a sacred image.
If you finance a sacred image,
if you visit a sacred place,
you're gaining merit,
both in this life
and in future incarnations,
wherever that may be.
The Buddhists also teach
that to achieve illumination
or experience Buddha
nature, we must
meditate on the
blue pearl, which
is here in our pineal gland.
They call it the jewel in
the heart of the lotus.
This is the meaning of
the Buddhist mantra,
Om mani padme hum.
Om mani padme hum,
which is a mantra
that you can chant as you are
meditating on these images.
This one here comes from
the "Hutchinson Collection"
at Ohio State University.
It's, I think, one of the
most remarkable images
of Padmasambhava and
the rainbow light body.
Because we clearly
see the blue pearl
or the blue apple in the
third eye in the pineal gland.
And meditating on this image
while chanting, om mani padme
hum calls in those
divine blessings,
and connects you even more
deeply with Padmasambhava,
and opens up a channel
for him to assist you
in awakening and manifesting
your rainbow light body,
so I love that image.
And there you see the blue pearl
highlighted in the third eye.
The pineal gland, of course,
is called the seat of the soul.
It's thought of as--
it's a manufacturing plant
of sacred oils, secretions
that contain the
secrets of transmuting
the body into light.
That's why there's the
emphasis on the pineal gland
and awakening its capability to
transmute our physical flesh.
You're familiar with this
state of being I'm describing.
You ever see the movie,
"The Wizard of Oz?"
Remember?
Dorothy goes up in a vortex.
She's in a dream to
begin with, right?
She goes up in the vortex.
And she's in a place called Oz.
And suddenly out of the blue,
comes this orb of light.
And within this
orb of light, she
begins to detect this
luminous humanoid figure,
the good witch, Glinda, who's
wearing a cloak of light.
She's got a resurrection
or star stick in her hand.
And she's wearing a crown.
She is dressed exactly
like Padmasambhava
in his rainbow light body,
who holds the resurrection
stick that opens the
gates of heaven and hell.
His crown, his vajra,
and his heart chakra--
they're identical.
In fact, they're
identical in exactly that
what they're able to do.
They can phase in between their
physical flesh and blood cells
and their light body selves.
And so can you.
You'll never get me up
on one of those, though,
is what our culture says.
And that's the gap
we have to close.
We have to say,
well, wait a minute.
Yes, we, in fact, can do this.
And this is what is reflected
in Buddhist art where they say,
we're always connected
to our true selves,
to our pure self, our whole,
holy, and complete self.
It's always there in
our consciousness.
This, in fact, comes from
the Dalai Lama secret temple.
The Rubin Museum in Manhattan
and Chelsea in New York
actually has a recreation
of that temple.
Or it's not on display now, but
periodically, it's on display.
And this is one of those
images that the Dalai Lamas
would be instructed
in, in this rainbow
bridge that links
our consciousness
with our true self.
And it's wonderful,
another example
of a living image that connects
us with our true selves.
Flipping back to the
Christian tradition,
we find this story of
John the Revelator who
is visited by an angel who
came down out of heaven,
says the Book of Revelation.
The heavens open all
the time in the Bible.
And I think those are
stargate and wormhole events.
So this angel comes
out of heaven,
morphs into a flesh
and blood form
that can be seen or perceived.
He's clothed with a cloud and
a rainbow around his head.
I don't know why, but I'm the
first person in all of history
to connect the angel that
John the Revelator saw
with the rainbow
light body beings.
I think they're the
exact same type of being.
They're in the same
state of being.
And he comes out of heaven,
this rainbow angel does.
And he's got a book
for John to eat.
Now, I take tremendous
comfort in this story
of John the Revelator
in this image.
Because what it tells
me is that I don't
have to do this all by myself.
I have my higher self.
And we could argue that
this rainbow angel is John
the Revelator's higher self.
Or there are beings that are
out there in our universe who
have already accomplished this.
And they are looking for
you and me to assist us
in completing our ascension.
I don't have to write the
book on the rainbow light body
within every detail.
These beings who have already
done it are the experts at it.
And they're out
there looking for us.
It's like we're the--
we got our light bulbs up here.
And for the most part,
none of our light bulbs
are screwed in, right?
But some of us have been
screwing in the light bulb.
And we're about to rake up
enough energy within ourselves
where, bing.
The light lights up.
That's when the
rainbow angels come in
and say, OK, put out your hand.
Literally putting
the-- completing
the secrets of ascension
in the palm of our hand.
That story is repeated over
and over and over again
in ascension stories, that
the person in the story--
Enoch, for example--
pre-flood scholar,
was just like you and I,
attended a lot of seminars,
went to--
watched ancient aliens
or did all this work
and has pieced it all together.
It's like, oh, bing.
I'm screwing my light bulb in.
And then all of a sudden,
the Archangel Michael
appears and says, OK,
Enoch, you've hit the books.
You know enough where
I'm not going to-- it's
not going to be
dangerous for you
or harmful for you to
go on this journey.
Michael takes him up
through several heavens.
They take him up to
the third heaven, which
could be another dimension--
anoints Enoch's body with oil
so that now Enoch's
body in the story
dissolves into
rainbow-colored light,
so that his body matches
that of the angels.
Wow.
You mean there's an oil that can
transmute our body into light?
Call Gary Young
and Young Living.
Let's get on this.
Let's start making
this oil right now.
Because I love
your Thieves drops.
I drink it by the gallon.
I love everything, but
what we really need
is a resurrection oil, right?
Where do you get that?
>> [INAUDIBLE] process.
>> Yeah, yeah.
And Gary is in his
rainbow body now.
He's probably laughing at me.
But the point is, is
that in these stories,
they tell us how it's done,
and that we're never alone
on this path.
And so what then happens, of
course, to finish Enoch's story
is he goes up to heaven.
And God talks with him
and says, oh, yeah.
Why don't you hang
around for a little bit?
I'll give you a job.
I know.
You'll be a janitor.
You sweep up around
the throne, Enoch.
And that's Enoch does
for about 30 days
while he's educated as well.
Then it's time for
him to come back.
And people think, oh,
that's a terrible job.
Who wants to be a janitor
at the throne of God?
I do.
How do I apply?
Right?
And so Enoch comes
back to Earth.
Then he's taken back up again.
And now, he's given a
new name and a new job.
His new name is Metatron.
And his new job
is he's the guide.
It's Metatron who's
looking for you.
He's way up.
I just saw that bulb.
He got that little more
twist there and up it goes.
And you're going to-- yeah,
they're looking for us.
And so we're going to reach
up to them, just as they're
going to come down
to us and assist us
in completing our ascension.
This teaching-- and
it was the Essenes
who wrote the story of Enoch.
This was another one of
their rewire the brain
visualization techniques.
Over and over again, they would
rehearse this story of Enoch
going up and being transformed.
What would it feel like to have
that oil running down your body
and your body dissolving
into rainbow-colored light,
so you're just like the angels?
Right?
They'd rehearse, rehearse,
rehearse, rehearse this
until it was a physical
reality within their own body.
This teaching is referred
to in the "Dead Sea
Scrolls" as the perfect
way, perfection of holiness,
perfect holiness, walking
in the way of perfection.
And it was given to the Essenes
by these other worldly beings
who were referred
to in the scrolls
as the heavenly holy
ones, sons of heaven,
holy angels of the
Lord, or perfect ones.
Why are they called
the perfect ones?
Well, because they're in
their rainbow light body,
their perfect light body.
And that is the goal
of human evolution
is for us to transform
our planet into a planet
of holiness and righteousness.
Atlantis tried
and failed, right?
Remember that?
That whole story?
The Atlanteans,
according to Plato,
were hybrids of the gods.
They had a divine
element within them.
But then they
started to ignore it.
They behaved
righteously for a while.
Then they said, oh, we
knew that-- oh, that
righteousness crap.
I won't come out.
It's much more fun
to be naughty, right?
Then that's what
they started to do.
And that divine element faded.
Zeus is watching
from high above.
And he goes, OK,
here's the flood.
See you all later.
You blew it.
That's the story
of Atlantis, right?
The key story or key aspect
of the Atlantean mythos
is they lost touch with
their divine element
and their righteous true selves.
And an entity, Zeus,
said enough's enough.
We're going to wipe you
out, start all over again.
And the Essenes are living
in the aftermath of this.
8,000 years after
the flood, humanity
is getting its act together.
And they're like, oh, OK.
We've survived the
flood, the cataclysm.
We're still on this planet.
And now, they're calling in
these high celestial beings,
saying, please, let
us try to regroup
and make this happen again.
And this is what was going
on with the Essenes is
that these angels then
came down and delivered
the heavenly secret, the mystery
that enabled them to transmute
their earthly flesh
into celestial flesh
and leave the planet.
Jesus was their
primary exemplar who
accomplished-- went through
this whole earthly cycle.
So the Essenes sought this
bodily and spiritual perfection
in order to cross over a veil or
boundary to the Celestial City,
to Scion, the new Jerusalem,
their term for the pure land
and to commune
with these beings,
to stand united with
the angels before God,
and to live in a state of,
as they say in the scrolls,
perfect light for all eternity.
Anybody interested?
Yeah, me, too.
This is what it's all about.
This is what we're using.
Every precious moment in this
gift of life that we have
is to accomplish this
very thing, right?
You can accumulate all
the wealth with you.
But, brother, you're not going
to take it with you, right?
This is the true treasure
that we're all seeking.
And this is the time when
there's a thought form that's
being built around it.
Our yoga goddesses are clearing
the way for us-- and gods,
right?
Or dakinis.
And now, it's up to us to take
that next step and to say, OK,
I think these
practices make sense.
Does this all make sense to you?
Yeah.
Yeah, so I'm going
to start visualizing.
I'm going to start rewiring
my brain to the frequency
of the rainbow light body.
And I'm going to do that
through images, because this
is how the ancients did it.
It worked for them.
And I think it could
work for me, too.
So I'm going to go
along this path.
And I'm going to
start to utilize
the art of living ascension.
I'm going to bring these
frequencies into my being
through these images.
Now, what the Tibetans
teach is that we
in the image of Padmasambhava
are two extremes.
We have flesh and blood bodies,
but not as much compassion
as we would like to have.
Padmasambhava has all the
compassion in the world,
but he doesn't have a
flesh and blood body.
So when we put these
two extremes together
while meditating on this image
of the rainbow light body,
we move in the
direction of manifesting
as a being with a flesh
and blood body, and more
compassion, and maybe
a few rainbows thrown
in just for decoration, right?
Our goal for now is
just to merge those two
and to begin to
make those steps.
Now, some of you
might say, well,
I'm not really into small steps.
I'm just going to
go all the way.
And I'm right here
to support you, OK?
Because we are--
there's a lot of people
that are on this ascension path
that are working on this, OK?
And there may be some that
have got that light bulb really
bright at this moment.
And they will actually be
able to go full rainbow light
body for us.
In fact, that is the
definition of the messiah.
When the Christ or messiah
comes at the Second Coming,
this will happen on CNN and Fox.
>> Really?
>> Yeah, right on
the Temple Mount.
That is one of the-- it's
on the checklist or to-do
list of the messiah.
So when people like Kanye West--
not to take a shot at Kanye,
but he does believe
he's the messiah.
My advice to Kanye is start
working on your rainbow light
body.
And it turns out he already is.
I wrote an article
on my website--
williamhenry.net.
Someone-- I took a
picture of myself--
not of myself, but I
was at Thanksgiving.
I was in Paradise
Valley, Arizona at the--
oh, what was the
name of that place?
The Biltmore Resort.
And there was this
beautiful Frank Lloyd Wright
stained glass window
of a rainbow imagery.
And so, as with my wife,
Claire, my best friend, Susan,
I said, hey, take
my picture here.
So I'd take this picture.
And I put it up on Instagram.
And all of a sudden, this
guy writes to me and says,
Kanye West reads your
work and so does Eminem.
And their songs are all
about the rainbow light body.
I'm like, I beg your pardon?
And they said, yeah, you know
about the 144,000, right?
I'm thinking, yeah, there's
people on Facebook, a group.
144,000 lightworkers
and all that.
So I dig into it.
This is what my
articles is about.
The 144,000 are taught
the new song of the Lord.
The new song.
And what this person
said was the new song
that the 144,000 know is the
frequency of the rainbow light
body.
And their mission-- the
144,000 will be on Earth
when the beast appears at the
time of the Second Coming.
Now, I'm of the
opinion that the beast
is AI and this
beastly technology
that we're unleashing
on humanity right now.
And that means maybe
the 144,000 are also
on the planet, because
they are the ones who
will overcome the beast.
And they overcome the beast
by singing the new song
manifesting the
rainbow light body.
Kanye West has
started a new choir
as the messiah in his mind
to teach the new song.
That gets me excited.
So I'm thinking, you go, man.
You go.
But just so long as he knows
that to go full messiah,
he's going to have to
stand on the Temple Mount
and go full rainbow light body.
Demonstrate the power
of resurrection.
>> And is that his
church service?
>> Pardon me?
That's his Sunday
church services.
Yes, that's his Sunday
So imagine that we're
just like Padmasambhava
or imagine that that's
not wishful thinking.
Imagine that we're not
trying to turn ourselves
into a supercomputer
or a Learjet, right?
We're trying to awaken
something that is already
within us that's already
there and to then
realize our full potential.
The purpose of
this meditation is
to help us to realize
that to become conscious
of that internal aspect, that
true nature of ourselves.
That is the purpose
of the art and science
of living ascension.
In fact, the Tibetans
teach that just seeing
images of the rainbow body
activates our own glory body.
Just seeing the images.
And we practice activating our
light body by contemplating,
meditating, reflecting on
the images presented here.
And this is why I spend so
much time and, actually, a lot
of money as well, trying to
bring these images to you,
trying to find the ones that
will help you to activate
your own light body.
And as I said earlier,
it just drives me crazy
thinking what other
images are out there
in private collections
that we don't know about?
Right?
I know there's some really
powerful ones out there.
But whether you like
Padmasambhava or Jesus
the Christ, they all
are demonstrating for us
this sacred state of being that
is within us, our true selves.
Call it the Christ self.
Call it our rainbow light body.
Now, something that
you want to notice
in these images of
Padmasambhava is
the symbols that are presented.
He sits on a lotus throne.
He's got his resurrection stick.
He's got his crown of glory.
He's got his vajra, which is the
Tibetan symbol for compassion
and action.
He holds it at the
level of the heart.
And he's got golden or
rainbow-colored rays
coming off of his body.
These are probably
not actual devices
that he brought with him.
I think they're symbols.
I think the resurrection
stick is our spinal cord.
It's our stairway to heaven.
The crown is obviously
our crown chakra.
The vajra is our heart chakra.
And the rainbow body
is our true nature.
Look at the Christian images
of Jesus and his resurrection
body.
He's got his resurrection stick.
He's got his crown.
He's got his vajra.
And he's got rainbow rays.
They're in the exact
same state of being.
In fact, Jesus gave a
very important teaching
on perfection.
This is Salvador
Dali's "Last Supper."
And it's a wonderful painting
of Jesus for many reasons,
including that when
we look in the detail,
we see him with this rainbow
light coming off his body.
He's phasing.
In fact, he's in an
interphasic realm.
He's not fully physical, nor is
he fully in his rainbow body.
But he's clearly
demonstrating that.
And in his teaching
on perfection,
Jesus says, I tell
you the truth.
It's hard for a rich man to
enter the kingdom of heaven.
Again, I tell you,
it's easier for a camel
to go through the
eye of a needle
than for a rich man to
enter the kingdom of God.
The eye of the needle, of
course, is the portal, right?
It's the gateway.
And what he's saying
here is that, brother,
your physical flesh
and blood body
is not going through
the eye of the needle.
I don't care how many times
you watch the movie "Stargate"
or "Contact."
Flesh and blood cannot
inherit the kingdom of heaven.
>> You need to want it.
>> And I would say
that to Elon Musk, too.
Brother, you're trying
to go move to Mars,
but this body is not
going to go live there.
NASA already has known that.
They've known this since 1962.
If you're going to
follow Elon Musk to Mars,
that means you're
going to turn yourself
into a robot or a light being.
And I've written to Elon Musk on
his Twitter page, saying, hey,
man, how about sending
monks to Mars first,
so we can terraform it with
a frequency or vibration that
will help to manifest life?
I didn't get a reply.
When it happened, is a rich
man said, Jesus, hey, man,
what's required
for eternal life?
I'm really into eternal life.
And Jesus said follow
the commandments.
This is the secret
of eternal life.
And what are the commandments?
Commandments are love with all
your heart, with all your soul,
and with all your mind.
This is the first and
greatest commandment.
And the second is unto it--
love your neighbor as yourself.
All the law of the prophets
hang on these two commandments.
And the rich man said, well,
I've already done that.
What else is required?
I got-- I don't know--
$4 in my pocket.
How about that?
No, there's only one way to get
through the eye of the needle--
love with all your
heart, mind, and soul.
And that enables you to manifest
your rainbow light body.
And Jesus said so.
Because the guy had said,
I've already done that.
What else is there?
And then Jesus told him.
And here's the punchline.
If that will be perfect, meaning
whole, holy, complete 360,
"I am-plus," go and
sell what you got.
Give it to the poor.
And you'll have
treasure in heaven.
Then you can come and follow me.
Because your stuff
isn't coming with you.
And I'm not here advocating
go sell all your stuff
and go stare at a painting
for the rest of your life.
But come to think of it,
it might not be a bad idea.
Because we are talking about
eternal life here, right?
And that is our ultimate goal
is to return to that source.
And so this is a
beautiful dovetailing
of the Christian and
the Tibetan tradition.
And we see exactly the same
imagery being employed.
Now, here's the thing.
And we're going to start to get
a little more into the science
of ascension here.
As an enlightened
being, the Tibetans
teach that Padmasambhava
has the ability
to transmit the vibration
of enlightenment
to seekers via his
physical image, which
is equal to pure spirit energy.
He is an avatar,
a quantum being.
And as a consequence,
he has the ability
to transmit his vibration
of the rainbow light body
through his image.
He's a busy guy
like Jesus, right?
He can't come down and
teach it or instruct
all seven and a
half billion of us,
so he says, here's my picture.
Just use my picture.
Right?
It's basically what
they're saying.
Just use the image.
The image, as the gnostic
said, will show you the way.
The image will show you the way.
Enter through the
image, the gnostic said.
You don't need a book.
Forget about the text.
The image will show you the
way, because we're avatars.
We're superbeings.
We can transmit our
vibration through an image.
What this means
is that the images
of the guru in his rainbow
body transmits the vibration
of this perfect state.
And when you are
contemplating his image,
he is contemplating you.
When you are
looking in his eyes,
he is looking in your
eyes simultaneously.
This idea came
from Christianity.
It came from Christianity,
just like Mary
was taken along the Silk
Road and became Quan Yin.
This idea, this principle
came from the earliest
Christian teachings.
In early Christianity,
an icon is a sacred image
that is believed to be
charged with spiritual power.
It can also transmit
spiritual power.
It's a living image
that functions
as a portal or gateway.
This is not me speaking.
You can go get any
book on sacred icons.
And it will tell you
exactly the same thing.
This is what the first
Christians believed.
It's a two-way mirror and
a method of communication
with the divine realms.
So if you are looking
at an image of Jesus
transfiguring or metamorphosing,
phasing into his light body,
his presence is being
transmitted to you
through that image.
And as you contemplate,
meditate, and reflect on that,
your body is beginning
to mirror what he
is experiencing in that moment.
I will give you the
neuroscience that
tells us that is absolutely
true in just a moment.
In the early
Christian traditions,
icons were specially created
to enable a visceral encounter
with a holy being or to make
present a spiritual energy.
They're a form of
visual alchemy that
can assist in our
transformation,
especially icons
of transfiguration
or metamorphosis.
They are considered to be
sacred mirrors to other realms.
Well, how come?
If this is true, we
have all these churches,
and Bibles being
published, and all that.
Well, the reason is because
you had a battle going on.
The iconodules believed
in the power of the image.
And the iconoclasts
said, no, no, no.
It's the word that is
supreme in the text.
And we control those words.
So therefore, we're going to
destroy all of those images
to eliminate this
teaching, because you're
in competition with us.
And so we went
through this period.
They call it iconoclasm
where they went and destroyed
all of these images.
What a loss for humanity.
What a setback.
And this went on until
about the 14th century.
And that's when
these images started
to emerge in Crete,
in Russia, and mostly
in the Eastern Church.
They still venerate
images where the artist
was a conduit, a
channel who would
go into deep states
of meditation,
very often having a
vision in this state.
And they would
create these images
that were to be approached
as a two-way mirror.
Not as a static image,
but as a two-way mirror.
You are looking at
Christ transfiguring.
He is sending the frequency
of the transfiguration to you
through the eyes.
Because the eye, again,
is the window to the soul.
And as a consequence,
this is how
they would begin to manifest
their robe of light, the robe
of sanctity, robe of glory, the
shining garment, the garment
of light, the beaming garment,
all interchangeable terms
for the light body and bring
up from within themselves
this powerful sense of liberty,
of cosmic freedom, of strength.
So through meditation,
we can connect
with these divine beings,
meditation on their image,
and begin to embody
their frequencies.
To me, it's the most beautiful
teaching I can imagine.
Leonardo knew this.
This painting called
"Salvatore Mundi," the "Savior
of the World," sold at
Christie's in December 2017
for $453 million.
Why?
Yeah, some people
think it's a fake,
and that Mohammed bin Salman,
the Saudi prince who bought it,
got ripped off.
I don't think so.
I think what Leonardo created
with this painting is an icon.
And it's worth a heck of a
lot more than $453 million.
By the way, after it was
sold at Christie's, it
was supposed to go to
the Louvre in Abu Dhabi,
but it's never been seen since.
Nobody knows where it is.
They think it's on Mohamed bin
Salman's yacht, the "Serenity."
It's showing Christ
as both male--
masculine and feminine.
And what he holds is
the resurrection orb
in his hand with the triple
dot symbolizing that--
the Tibetans call
the Chintamani.
What does the Chintamani do?
It manifests the
rainbow light body.
So here's Christ
holding the Chintamani,
but he's not holding it.
He's offering it to you.
>> What is the sign there?
>> That's a blessing sign.
It's like a John the
Baptist blessing sign.
I think it's one of the most
important paintings ever
created.
And it puts you in
the vortex of Christ
through Leonardo who
is offering to you
the ultimate power of the
universe through this painting.
So I had an
opportunity to see this
just before it went on exhibit.
And I told my wife, Claire.
I said, man, Leonardo's
last painting,
his lost painting is going
to be on display in London
and at Christie's.
And we got to go see it.
And should we get up early or
spend the night on the street
there to make sure we
get in line to see it?
And she's like, no, no, no.
So I'm anticipating
throngs of people.
The Tube is going to
be shut down in London.
Everybody is going to trying to
get in front of this painting.
We get there.
There's nobody there.
It's just us.
And I got to go stand in
front of Leonardo's vortex
five times--
went through the
line five times.
They'd let you go in there
for three minutes each time.
And then finally, people
started coming in.
But just imagine
if this painting--
if Leonardo had a vision
of Christ manifest
and then he's able to create a
painting, look at those eyes.
You ever seen anything
like those eyes?
They're leonine.
It's such a powerful painting.
And just imagine we're in a
room that's just candle lit.
And this haunting
image is just floating
in the room in front of us,
offering to us the Chintamani.
That's the way I view this.
And that's how it would
have originally been viewed.
Just so profound.
And by the way, we
know for sure this
is Christ, because it's
the exact same face
on the Shroud of Turin.
And so please don't tell
me Jesus never existed.
Don't give me that crap.
That is such a bogus argument.
Of course, he did.
And of course, the Shroud
of Turin is an icon.
It's an icon, as the Catholic
Church has now affirmed,
of Christ and his
resurrection body.
The face is identical.
It's identical.
And Leonardo never saw
the Shroud of Turin.
So here we are.
How is it possible for an
image to transmit the presence
or vibration of a deity?
Let's get into the neuroscience
of this a little bit.
It's very, very interesting.
Around 200,000 years ago,
some mysterious event
occurred that spontaneously
led to the modern human brain
coming into existence in Africa.
And this is what
Michelangelo is trying
to capture in this painting
in the Sistine Chapel
of the creation of man.
Here's God transmitting
something to Adam
who's over here on the left.
Now, something you
need to know here
is that Adam is portrayed as a
young man in the perfect body
of a Greek athlete.
This is how the Greeks visualize
the perfect light body.
This isn't actually
some Greek stud
we're looking at
with a six pack.
This is how the perfect
proportions of this body
are reflective of the perfect
proportions of the light body.
And so because
Adam in this moment
is not in his flesh
and blood body.
He is in the moment
before the so-called fall
in the Book of Genesis
when all of humanity
was in a light body form.
And so he is in his
light body being
prepared to receive an
infusion of something that
would transform him.
As the book of Zohar says,
the Jewish mystical book,
when Adam dwelt in
the Garden of Eden,
he was clothed in the
celestial garment, which is
the garment of heavenly light.
That's exactly what
the Buddhas teach.
This is our true
nature as light beings.
And so in the Church of St.
Francis of Assisi in Assisi,
Italy, we see
Christ, God creating
Adam as a being of
light in a mandorla,
a perfect gateway of light.
Beyond our material
and emotional body,
we have a body of light,
says Christian mysticism.
Deep, deep inside of us, there
is a pure being, a pure light,
pure energy existing
and total potentiality
and then came the fall.
And what this means is that
humans, when we lived in Eden,
were in a different form.
We had perfect bodies of light.
And all of human
history is a quest
to get back to our original
status as pure light beings.
The Kabbalistic theory
of humanity's origins
as light beings is
echoed in Paul's comments
in Corinthians when he said,
God created a heavenly atom
in the spiritual world and
an earthly atom of clay
for the material world.
Remember the Buddhist
image of the guy
in his earthly body connected
through the rainbow bridge
to his rainbow body?
Exact same teaching.
We have our earthly self, and
we have our celestial self.
And we're trying to
get back to that state
where they're unified and we are
in our perfect bodies of light.
The Gospel of Philip
is a gnostic gospel
that informs us about
this, telling us
the Lord rose from the dead.
He became as he was.
But now, his body was perfect.
And how many times
have we dropped
the word perfect in
our conversation today?
Multiple times.
Because it is the
key word that we
can use to weave ourselves
through these rainbow
light body traditions.
He possessed flesh, but
this was true flesh.
Our flesh isn't true.
Our flesh is only an
image of the true.
Oh, so we're made
in the image of God.
God is not some dirty, old
white man on the throne.
That's not the image
we're talking about.
We are made in the image of God
in terms of our rainbow light
body.
When we get that, it
opens up a whole new way
of looking at this.
So the question
then is, how do we
get back to our original
rainbow light body?
Well, we follow this path.
So God created mankind
in his own image.
In the image of God, he
created them-- male and female.
He created them.
God is a artist.
We're an artistic creation.
We're works of art.
We're images made in the
image of our creator.
We are icons of
artistic parents, right?
What is the light spirit, then,
that they transmitted to us?
When God is reaching out to
Adam to zap something to him,
what is that, that
he was transmitting?
Well, the answer is
it's the Holy Spirit.
We'll come to that
in just a moment.
This image is from the
13th century in France.
And I'm going to go
back just for a moment.
You see God there?
He's got a compass in his hand.
This is the first time
humanity is starting to think
technology is a gift from God.
So they actually started to
portray God with technology
in his hands.
Tools, right?
In this case, a compass.
And God is using that
compass to manipulate
the image of humanity,
which is readily
identifiable as a fractal.
In fact, it's a Mandelbrot set.
So here's the image
from the 13th century.
There's the Mandelbrot set.
It's the exact same image.
It's the exact
same thing, right?
The Mandelbrot set
was discovered in 1980
by Benoit Mandelbrot who was
working at IBM at the time.
It's an infinitely
complex geometrical shape
called the Mandelbrot set that
uses a very simple equation
with computers and graphics.
It was only possible to create
that image with the invention
of computers.
Without computers, we're not
getting the Mandelbrot set.
And the Mandelbrot
set is generated
by what is called iteration,
which means to repeat
a process over and over again.
It's a set of numbers.
And from these numbers,
you can generate pictures.
And the pictures are
infinitely complicated.
At every level of
magnification, the pattern
repeats itself into infinity.
They call it a mathematical
icon that they refer
to as the thumbprint of God.
So here's an image of
the Mandelbrot set.
And no matter how many
times or how deeply you
magnify that image
at every level,
it stays exactly the same.
We're made in the
image of God, so we
are fractals of
God, which means we
contain all of God's
essence within us
and capabilities as fractals.
Here's the thing.
If a programmer looks
at the Mandelbrot set
and wants to change
some tiny detail,
make another curlicue
or a bump go away,
they can't do it
without going back
to the original creation
or original equation
and starting all over again.
So in effect, they tear
down the universe in order
to augment or build a new one.
Within this Mandelbrot set, we
see the richness of our unity
and also the richness
of our individuality.
We are baby Mandelbrot
sets or fractals.
Now, some clever
mathematician back in the '80s
said, wow, Ben.
Wow, that is really awesome.
And what I see in the Mandelbrot
set is a meditating Buddha.
So here's the Akasagarbha
Buddha holding the triple dots
of the Chintamani, the
wish-fulfilling gem
at the level of
the heart that can
transmute the body into light.
And what I'm going to
do is take that image
and superimpose on it
the Mandelbrot set.
It's a perfect match.
I don't even have
Photoshop, so I didn't
manipulate this in any way.
I just went, doink.
And there it is.
Perfect match.
So what the mathematicians
decided to do--
let's change the equation.
And they came up with what they
call the Buddhabrot, right?
And I'm sitting at my desk,
looking at this going,
a rainbow-colored Buddhabrot.
What do you suppose is
going through my mind?
It's a perfect match for
Padmasambhava in the rainbow
body.
Ding, ding, ding, ding,
ding, ding, ding, ding, ding.
There's more confirmation.
The rainbow body
is our true nature.
We are made in the image of God.
It's not some dirty, old
white man on a throne
that everybody hates and
doesn't want me to talk
about religion anywhere.
It's the light body, is the
image we're talking about.
It's the light body that
we're made in the image of.
Christianity teaches this.
Because humans are made in
the perfect image of God,
we have the spiritual capacity
to participate in or mirror
Jesus's divine glory
as image bearers
and reactivate our light bodies.
The Bible is very
direct and specific.
As was the man of
dust or DNA, clay,
so also are those of dust
as is the man of heaven,
so also are those
who are of heaven.
Here it is.
Just as we have born the
image of the man of dust,
our earthly flesh and
blood bodies, so also shall
we bear the image of
the man of heaven.
It's already within us.
The image of the man of heaven
is Jesus in his rainbow light
body.
And we have the
spiritual capacity
already within us in order
to manifest that body.
And we can do it
on the Earth plane.
And one way we can
begin to do that is
to put our hands up
and receive these codes
and frequencies from
Jesus who is offering them
to us at this very
moment, right?
Now, we're connecting
ourselves--
our flesh and blood body
to the man of spirit.
It was Jan van Eyck who
invented oil painting that
intended for his works
to be seen as if you
were present in this scene.
He's absolute genius alchemist.
Christianity is
founded on the premise
that Christ is God incarnate.
Paul said, Christ
and whom are hidden
all the treasures of
wisdom and knowledge
is the image of
the invisible God.
Just for fun, go back and look
at how many times the Bible
talks about the image.
The image, the image, the image.
It's the art and science
of living ascension.
We are images of God.
We can embody it.
The question is, if
Christ is an image of God,
he must then reflect
God or something of God.
Can Christ as an image
be imaged himself?
This is a big debate.
This is why they
destroyed all the icons.
Can Christ as an image
of God be painted?
Can we sculpt an
image of Christ?
Or is this like asking if a beam
of sunlight reflected on water
can somehow leap from the
water and take on life?
Well, the answer is yes.
Christ can be imaged.
And his image then can
transmit to us these higher
spiritual frequencies.
So according to
these traditions,
this work of art,
the human body,
our body was lifeless until
the otherworldly artist
breathed life or spirit into
the artificial creations.
And we became us.
We are icons or images
of artistic parents.
So what is the life spirit
that they transmitted to us?
That is a really
critical question
here that we need to answer.
And what was it that
that life spirit did?
Well, the answer came from
a clever neurosurgeon who
was in the Vatican, looks up
at Michelangelo's painting
and goes, this is impossible.
Because at the time, we
weren't doing autopsies
on human cadavers.
So how did Michelangelo
know to put
God in a cutaway of the human
brain, which is what he did?
How did Michelangelo know that?
So God is in the brain.
And this is where all the
action is going to take place
as our story develops.
What he's describing
here is the activation
of our neocortex, which is what
happened 200,000 years ago.
Before that time, our new
layer of the brain is in place,
but it's not activated.
It's like the hardware is
there, but the software
isn't there to make it work.
The neocortex is what makes
possible our judgments
and our knowledge
of good and evil.
It's also the site from which
our creativity emerges and also
is the home to
our sense of self.
Now, this is very important.
Because if your neocortex
isn't activated,
you have no sense of
self, no sense of "I."
This is when the
illusion began, right?
This is when the illusion began.
And it began in Judeo-Christian
and Islamic civilization
when Eve reached up and took
that apple of wisdom and said,
oh, wait a minute.
I'm naked.
This is good.
That's evil.
That's light.
That's dark.
If your neocortex
isn't activated,
you have no sense of judgment.
You can't make
those distinctions.
So when our neocortex is
activated, now all of a sudden,
we're in this realm of illusion.
And our entire
civilization now is
the product of the
activation of our neocortex.
It is the distinction
of our species,
the seed of our humanity,
says Carl Sagan.
And nobody knows how it
was activated or by whom.
Nobody-- no neuroscientists
can answer that.
We do know that it was charged
or awakened 75,000 years ago.
It laid dormant for
about 125,000 years.
This is according to John
Hoffecker, an archaeologist
in the University
of Colorado, who
says the neocortex was
switched on 75,000 years ago.
In a TED Talk given in 2010,
neuroscientist VS Ramachandran
at UCLA had observed that
about 75,000 years ago-- doing
his independent research--
there was a sudden emergence
and rapid spread of skills
unique to human beings
like the use of tools,
use of fire, shelters,
and use of language,
plus the ability
to read another person's mind
and interpret their behavior
intentions.
All of it happened
at once, but they
can't explain how it happened.
Whatever happened at that
moment spurred a modern capacity
for judgment, for the capacity
for novelty invention,
and most importantly,
for our conversation,
the production and
appreciation of art.
That is why the
neocortex was activated.
The sudden and
miraculous transition
from Homo erectus
to Homo sapiens
defies the conventional
theory of evolution.
And somehow, we went from
Homo erectus to Homo luminous
with nothing in between.
Something happened
to us, but what?
Stephen J. Gould
said it's the theory
of punctuated
equilibrium where we
go through these times of a long
period where nothing happens.
Then suddenly, there's a
massive spurt of evolution.
Some scientists say that, oh,
the activation of the neocortex
came from an asteroid or comet
impact or some relationship
between our sun and solar system
and the center of the Milky Way
galaxy.
And by the way, you're out here
on the Orion arm of the galaxy.
And make the most of
this precious opportunity
while you're embodied.
So what occurred to
activate the neocortex?
The hardware is there
for 200,000 years.
But then 40,000 years
ago, 75,000 years ago,
something happened.
They throw up these
suppositions-- cooking meat,
psychedelic substances,
climate change, group sex.
Scientists-- they all
are involved in what
ultimately made us human.
But whatever happened
is symbolized
by that moment right there
in the Abrahamic religions--
Judaism, Christianity,
and Islam.
That moment when the serpent
comes out of the tree,
gives Eve that
fruit, that is when
our neocortex is activated.
That's what that moment
actually symbolizes.
So the tree in the neocortex
means the new bark.
The tree the serpent
is hiding within
is within our consciousness,
within our brain.
So something activated these
capabilities, but what?
Carl Sagan says it
was cosmic rays.
VS Ramachandran,
the neuroscientist,
claims it was the sudden
appearance of mirror neurons
that allowed us to imitate and
emulate one another's actions.
We have these wonderful
neurons in our neocortex
called mirror neurons that--
they call them empathy
neurons, basically monkey see,
monkey do.
Because when these
are activated,
I can watch you
perform an action.
And I can duplicate it.
I don't have to--
as Ramachandran
gives the example,
a person doesn't have to--
can watch his father go
kill a polar bear,
skin the polar bear,
and cook the polar bear.
He doesn't have
to go relearn how
to do every step that took
his father or his predecessors
to get the ability to do that.
He can watch and learn
instantly, just like that.
Something happened.
What we now know
actually happened
was that two
chromosomes were fused.
Chromosome 2 is responsible
for our capacity
for empathy, for sympathy,
all of the activities
of the neocortex.
And what we now know, at least
according to modern science,
is that this happened.
And it's very strange
that it happened.
We know exactly how it happened.
But we don't know
who actually did it.
We know that there was
an ancient telomere
to telomere fusion
that is not natural.
Some outside force was
responsible for fusing
these telomeres.
Who did this?
And why?
Well, we don't know exactly
who, but we do know how.
We now have
CRISPR-Cas9 technology,
which is what we could today use
to fuse genes and chromosomes.
So our brain was
tweaked long ago.
And we have to ask,
was it to make way
for the emerging digital brain?
That's another important
part of my conversation.
Due to one species,
us, Earth's biosphere
has begun to resemble
a human brain.
AI is emerging as a
new layer of our brain.
So 200,000 years ago, the
neocortex is activated.
And here we are today, adding
a new layer to that new layer.
Is this why they
activated our neocortex?
You could make that
argument and leave it there.
What is actually happening,
says Google's Ray Kurzweil,
is that we are merging our
neocortex with the cloud.
We are augmenting our brain.
And this is the product of
the fusion of chromosome 2.
So where did it come from?
The ancient Egyptian says it was
the god Ptah, came from Sirius,
fashioned the human body.
He even has a double
helix in his hieroglyph.
Here is Ptah's business card.
He's the architect
of heaven and Earth,
the master craftsman of working
metal, sculptor, designer,
and fashioner of
the bodies of men.
And you can see the double
helix in his hieroglyph.
Egyptologists say
that's a twisted rope.
And they laugh when I say
it's a double helix of DNA.
Because, of course,
the ancient Egyptians
knew nothing about DNA.
But yet, here's
the god, they say
fashioned the human
body, tweaked our body,
probably is the one
who fused chromosome 2.
Low and below, he's got a
double helix in his hieroglyph.
Makes sense to me.
Ptah is an Egyptian
creator god who
existed before all other
things and by his will,
thought the world
into existence.
Ptah conceived of the world
by the thought of his heart,
said the ancient Egyptians,
and gives life through
the magic of his word.
Today, we call that
heart/brain coherence, OK?
So he fused chromosome 2.
So we can have
heart/brain coherence
is a way of looking at this.
And here's a magnificent
statue of Ptah in his ascension
garment, his feathered ascension
garment with his resurrection
stick.
He is the original
resurrection god on Earth.
And it's my belief, based
on many years of research
looking into Ptah and the
Egyptian creation stories,
that the reason why he tweaked
our DNA and if he did, indeed,
fuse chromosome 2,
was to assist us
in making our body a
more conducive vehicle
for the ascension of the soul.
Because what we find in
the Egyptian tradition,
as exemplified here from
the Temple of Nefertari
in the Valley of the Queens, is
that she wears her transparent
linen garment.
She's got White Tara's red sash
on that enables her to fly.
And she's holding
out these hieroglyphs
to Ptah who stands there before
his rainbow-colored stairway
to heaven, holding his
resurrection stick.
He wears a white garment
that the Egyptians
called the [INAUDIBLE] garment.
And I like to joke that's
how we pronounce Christ
in Nashville where I live.
People go to the
Church of Christ.
And little do they
know they're using
the ancient Egyptian
term for the light body,
for the cloak of light.
So Nefertari is holding
out this hieroglyph
that is the Egyptian
hieroglyph for new clothes.
She is saying to Ptah, thank
you for helping me to manifest
my eternal light body, so
that I can live forever
as a divine being of light.
It was Ptah who
originally brought
the original ancient
Egyptian teaching
about opening a rusty
valve in our pineal gland
through the use of
tones, lights, and an as
yet unidentified plant
that would release pulses
of hormones, similar to
the ecdysone that transform
a caterpillar into a butterfly
that would enable them
to mutate into a non-molecular
light body into which
their consciousness could
be copied and pasted.
And then the gods
and pharaohs that
transformed humans, including
Tutankhamun and others,
could then live forever as
resurrected eternal beings
like Osiris.
So you will see Osiris, the
Egyptian god of resurrection,
on his feathered
ascension throne, i.e.,
the Merkaba throne--
is feathered because it flies.
It's his ascension throne,
his Merkaba throne.
And in Egyptian art,
you will see pharaohs.
This is a Ptolemaic king,
a human just like you
and I, who has completed the
ascension process and now rides
upon what the ancient
Egyptians called
the ark of the millions of
years, the ship of eternity
on his feathered Merkaba throne,
holding his resurrection stick,
his key of life with his crown.
And we notice-- and this
is my great contribution,
if you will, to
esoteric Egyptology, is
that the ark of the
millions of years
matches precisely the way modern
science portrays a wormhole.
And what I began to
speculate is that if Ptah is
the guy that tweaked our DNA--
and the Egyptians said he's
also the god of technology who
created the resurrection stick,
and the ark of the million
years, and all this
other technology.
Did he tweak our DNA, so that
we could ride the ascension
throne?
Makes sense to me.
And that's my
operating principle,
that this is what all the
ancient Egyptian mysteries are
actually all about, perfectly
demonstrated on the wall.
So this Ptolemaic king, Soter
III, has his crown of wisdom,
his key of life, his
resurrection stick,
his feathered ascension
throne, and his lotus craft.
Have we ever seen those
symbols before anywhere?
>> Yes.
>> Isn't that exactly the same
set of symbols that we saw with
Padmasambhava?
Yes, it is.
Because this teaching
is not Tibetan.
It's not Christian.
It's not Egyptian.
It's not Islamic.
It's cosmic.
It's the original
cosmic teaching
that came from
other star systems
and is taught in our
solar system as well.
And this is what we see in the
resurrection body of Osiris.
It's a perfect match for
the rainbow light body.
And it was Ptah who
originated this.
He put on the image of the gods.
Back to the image again, back to
tweaking the neocortex, right?
In Sumerian mythohistory,
Ptah is called Enki.
He is the god that
fashioned the human body
and put on it, according
to the Atrahasis,
the image of the gods.
The image.
What is the image?
It's obviously alien DNA.
It's extraterrestrial DNA.
That is what the image is.
And the new being that they
created was called the Lulu.
The Lulu and a
goddess named Nanna.
We still use that term today.
Nanna carried this first
human being called Adapa who
was the first human to ascend.
And this is why
they created him,
because Adapa, as soon
as he was created,
took the path to heaven, right?
So that's why they
tweaked us is to enable
us to complete this ascension.
Why are you're going
to create a being
and then take them
on the path to heaven
if this isn't a test pilot?
Let's just see if
this tweaking works,
this fusing of chromosome 2,
an activation in the neocortex.
Let's make sure this works.
We're going to take this
guy on the path to heaven.
So Nanna would fix upon
the image of the gods
and what will be is man.
In 2018, a Chinese
scientist caused the world
to go completely ballistic
when he used CRISPR technology
on human embryos to create
genetically edited babies
resistant to HIV that will
pass the modifications
on to future generations.
He genetically
modified twin sisters.
Do you know what he named them?
Nanna and Lulu.
He must have been reading
the Sumerian stories,
otherwise this is one of
the greatest synchronicities
of all time.
And today, are we transferring
these images to creations
made in our image--
robots and artificial beings?
Yes, we are.
We're doing exactly
what Ptah did long ago.
So if Ptah tweaked our DNA
and fused chromosome 2,
why did he do this?
Why did he do so?
To make the body a
more conducive vehicle
for the ascension of the soul.
Oh, my gosh.
There we said it.
Isn't that what really happened
when he fused chromosome 2?
Humans got what?
Souls.
We were given souls.
Our ancestors got a
transphysical soul
as a result of the
fusion of chromosome 2.
The real Adam and
Eve became ensouled.
This is what I feel happened.
Is there a soul?
Do you have a soul?
How do you know you have a soul?
It's not a trick question.
Before chromosome 2 is
fused, we did not have souls.
That's why they did it was
to make the body a more
conducive vehicle for the soul.
And at the same time, we
were actually ensouled.
And here is why I say that
is because our soul and God's
presence and connection to it
allows for 12 capacities that
are inaccessible to artificial
life forms like robots and even
animals.
Only beings with souls
have these abilities.
Those capacities which only
come from the activation
of chromosome 2-- empathy,
remember, is the key.
Souls have empathy.
We have self-consciousness,
conceptual ideas,
the quest for perfect truth.
Ensouled beings have
spiritually sacred numinous
transcendent reality or
the recognition of it,
the desire for a perfect home,
the capacity for empathy.
Without the fusion of
chromosome 2, no empathy.
No empathy.
So this is why I'm saying this
is the reason why it was done
and how it was done.
The desire for perfect love, the
capacity for moral reflection,
the desire for perfect
justice and goodness,
the capacity to
appreciate and be
filled by the beautiful
in nature, music, and art.
Unless our neocortex
is activated,
we don't appreciate art.
I loved my cats, but
they didn't like--
yeah, they might have
liked my music when
I would play guitar for them.
They sit and listen
all the time.
Never said anything, but I
think they appreciate it.
But they didn't go to say, hey,
William, take me to a museum.
I want to look at
images of other cats.
Right?
They don't have
that consciousness.
We do.
Because we have our activated
neocortex through chromosome 2.
So the desire for perfect
beauty, the capacity for free
will.
Was it the soul that
caused our latent abilities
in the quest for perfection
to suddenly switch on?
I believe that that is what
is being described here.
And more directly, did the
soul switch on the neocortex?
I can't answer
that definitively,
but it's a very
important question here
that needs to be drawn in.
I know Gregg Braden
talks about this.
He doesn't go into this level
that we're talking about.
I know Bruce Fenton
talks about it
with the extraterrestrial
hybrid dynamic--
doesn't touch this.
So this is a different
facet of this conversation.
And I think it's
taking us into a more--
certainly a more personal level
and certainly the soul level.
With the activation
of the neocortex,
we get the activation
of mirror neurons
Ramachandran and researchers at
UCLA found that mirror neuron
cells in the human
anterior cingulate,
which normally fire when
you poke the patient with
a needle-- they're
called pain neurons--
will also fire when you're
watching a patient being poked,
right?
Hence, mirror neurons.
The brain can't tell the
difference between a real
and an imagined
experience, right?
>> Right.
>> We know that.
Everything is brought to
life in our imagination.
The brain can't tell if
I'm watching it being poked
or if I'm actually being poked.
But what it does have is an
editor that says chill out.
You're not actually
being poked with a needle
or punched into
the face like Rocky
as you're watching the movie.
You are feeling it
with him, but there's
an editor that says
don't go full blown pain
or don't go full blown,
feeling like you're
being punched in the face.
Please don't go stigmata
as you're watching Rocky.
In other words, don't have your
face all blown up, and bloody,
and all that kind
of thing, right?
It could.
The mirror neurons
dissolve the barrier
between self and others,
is what Ramachandran says.
Now, here is the kicker.
This is the whole
new piece to this
that you're not
getting anywhere else.
And I'm not saying
that out of ego.
I just want you to know this
is a very important part
of our art and science of
living ascension program here.
Writing in "The evolution of
the brain, the human nature
of cortical circuits, and
intellectual creativity,"
published on the "Frontiers
of Neuroanatomy" journal,
researcher Javier DeFelipe
proposes the newly acquired
cognitive capacity, the
activation of the neocortex
through chromosome 2.
And genus Homo sapien
has one purpose--
for the production and
appreciation of art,
a uniquely human attribute.
Boom.
This is why they did it, for
the production and appreciation,
which means our ability to
merge or sync with what we're
seeing in an image.
Says DeFelipe, "The hominid
brain grew an accelerating pace
until it reached its present
size about 200,000 years ago,
yet uniquely human abilities
such as the invention
of highly sophisticated,
standardized, multi-part tools,
tailored clothes, art, religious
beliefs, and perhaps even
language are thought to have
emerged quite rapidly 40,000
years ago, a sudden explosion
of human mental abilities
and cultures that is sometimes
called the Big Bang."
Right?
"Recent research,"
he goes on to say,
"carried out on the motor
neural system in humans
with a variety of
techniques has shown
that even the observation
of static images of actions
leads to action simulation in
the brain of the observer."
So as you are looking
at Eve reaching up
to receive that piece of
fruit through your activated
neocortex, your
neurons are firing
as if you are reaching up
to receive that yourself.
Action simulation through the
activation of the same brain
regions normally
activated by execution
of the observed actions.
The brain can't tell the
difference between a real
and an imagined experience.
And if you are looking at
a piece of art of someone
reaching up and
grabbing an apple,
your neurocortex is firing.
Your mirror neurons are firing
as if you are doing that.
Now, here is where I
wish I was writing a PhD
thesis at this time.
Because no such
thesis has been done.
But I will put this in a public
forum in this matter to say,
can we extrapolate
that to images
of looking at the rainbow
light body and transfiguration?
Of course we can.
Where is the limit?
There is no limit.
And this is why I am saying
this is the most direct route
to activating your light body.
This is why
chromosome 2 is fused.
This is why our
neocortex was activated,
so that we could look at an
image of Christ transfiguring
or Padmasambhava
in his light body.
And suddenly, your
mirror neurons
are firing as if you
are transfiguring.
And your rainbow light
body is being activated.
But what you've got
is the monkey mind
that goes, chill out, William.
You got a flight to catch
in three hours, right?
Don't go full rainbow light
body in front of everybody
just now, OK?
But if I could somehow
get rid of that editor,
I could dissolve into rainbow
light right in front of you,
OK?
Well, I'm going to let
Kanye West do that.
Because he's the messiah
and I'm not, all right?
Witnessing action activates
the same neural networks
as those used to
perform the activities.
Let's read that together.
Witnessing action activates
the same neural networks
as those used to perform
these activities.
That is your key to your
ascension right there,
not standing on your head
singing, hob skibbly hob hoben,
or drinking some potion.
Oh, you might want an oil.
But this is your
most direct route
to activating your light body.
And we have known this
for thousands of years.
Why?
Because the gods that
tweaked our DNA and fused
chromosome 2 said so.
Because this is why they
did it to begin with.
Remember, the materials of
the transfiguration icon
became a channel.
The link is your mirror neurons.
Here's an example of this,
of how-- of an ancient story
reflecting exactly this concept.
Yeah, we were talking
about Adam and Eve
with the serpent in
the tree and saying
that's our brain and neocortex.
Well, here's Moses before
a serpent on a pole
in a very important story.
Moses and the Israelites
have just escaped Egypt.
They're wandering
around the wilderness.
And the Israelites are
getting a little upset.
They're like, Moses, we're
just walking around here.
And nothing is going on.
We're getting hungry.
And what's the point
of all of this?
And suddenly, the
Israelites are being
attacked by flying serpents,
says the Book of Numbers.
Winged serpents
are attacking them.
There are actual
academics that say
those are flying dinosaurs
leftover that are attacking
the Israelites, right?
And they're being harmed
by these winged serpents.
So Moses prayed for the people.
And the Lord said to
Moses, make, craft,
devise a fiery serpent
and set it on a pole.
And everyone who is bitten
when he sees it will live.
Well, wait a minute.
When the Israelites looked at
this sculpted metal serpent
on a pole, a work of art,
which is called the Nehushtan,
they were healed.
It's a work of art.
It's a device that transmits
a healing vibration.
Jesus later told Nicodemus
that this work of art,
the serpent on a pole, is
the key to eternal life.
So this is very important
that we understand this.
And the question
that comes along
with it is, can God, with
a big G or a little g,
inhabit a statue, a
painting, or any work of art
made by human hands?
Is this possible?
Can God transmit a holy
vibration from this image,
from the work of art to the
human image, to we icons?
Can the presence of God be made
present in our material world?
One must carefully
answer these questions.
Because, in fact, they are at
the heart of all of the world's
religious traditions
and, in fact,
are the key to your ascension.
Is it possible for the
soul and we icons--
we are works of art, as I said--
to use art as a conduit to
the divine realm, a higher
dimension, or to transmit a
divine vibration through art?
My answer is yes it is.
This is why they activated
chromosome 2 to activate
our neocortex, so we have
empathy neurons so that we
can go monkey see, monkey do.
How much more-- how
much easier do you
want it to be for it to ascend,
than to look at an image
and allow the divine presence
to flow through that image
into your image and to
transmute your body into light?
And it is key to
remember, the heart
is our primary
center that organizes
and relays the energy of love
from our highest dimensions.
So it's not just
the mirror neurons.
It's the heart
working in coherence
with the mirror
neurons that enables
us to activate the image by
reaching out through the heart
to the higher dimensions to
bring in these frequencies.
And what is the frequency?
It's love.
For where your treasure is,
there your heart will be also,
said Jesus.
The eye is the lamp of the body.
And if your vision is
clear, your whole body
will be full of light.
But if your vision is
poor, your whole body
will also be full of darkness.
If then the light
is within you--
excuse me-- if the
light within you
is darkness, how great
is that darkness?
Right?
When we open our heart,
we develop new pathways
for the soul to synchronize
with the infinite love
and creativity of the
heart in the spirit realm.
And we can only do that with
the activated neocortex looking
at the image.
Jesus said that if you live
from the love in the heart
and divine unity, you
will know the truth.
And truth will make you free.
Want to talk about the
Sacred Heart of Jesus here.
I'm not Catholic, but I
love some Catholic imagery.
It's so profound.
It's so mystical.
And this is one example here--
the Sacred Heart of Jesus
as it's called.
It's viewed as a symbol of God's
boundless and passionate love
for mankind in Catholicism.
I remember the moment
Claire and I first saw this
in Santa Maggiore in Rome.
I'm looking at this, going,
man, he's floating, right?
He floating above this
fountain of water.
It's called a devotion
picture of the "Sacred Heart."
And it was first adored by--
what we see is Jesus being
adored by Saint Margaret Mary
Alacoque and the Blessed
Mary of the Divine Heart.
It's Sopra Minerva in Rome.
Look at Sister Mary here.
What is she doing?
Beaming energy, too, or
receiving it from this image?
Right?
They're in deep ecstasy here,
deep states of bliss, trance,
as a matter of fact.
And the Sacred Heart
of Jesus is wide open,
beaming light frequency and
love frequencies to them.
The popularization of this
devotion in its modern form
is derived from a
Catholic nun from France.
She said she had apparition.
She saw apparitions
of Jesus that appeared
to her between 1673 and 1675.
An apparition is Catholic
speak for a light being.
A light being.
An apparition means a
full-spectrum being,
a light being.
And there are
numerous appearances
of apparitions that are reported
throughout Christian history.
Not only Jesus appearing
in his light body form,
but Mary appeared in one of
the most famous apparitions
at Lourdes.
My wife, Claire, and I
take people to Lourdes
to experience the
healing waters there
that were opened up by Mary
and her light body form.
Our Virgin of Guadalupe is
Mary, an apparition of Mary that
happened in Mexico in 1571.
And she's portrayed in art
wearing her cloak of light,
radiant, luminous, so forth.
She's in her star body.
She's in her rainbow light
body, as a matter of fact.
These are
interchangeable images.
Mary is the first
Christian to ascend.
And if you get the idea
that the apparitions of Mary
are the appearance of Mary
and her rainbow light body,
you're suddenly now in a whole
new level of understanding
of Christian mysticism.
Here's a comparison of
Padmasambhava and his rainbow
light body and Filippino
Lippi's painting of Mary
in her many colored
garment, her cloak of light.
Look at this crown
that he's created.
You see the star on her
shoulder that indicates
she's in her star body?
She's got on her plasma crown.
How'd you like to
have one of those?
It'd be pretty
cool, wouldn't it?
Yeah, you can.
You can.
And in fact, as you're
looking at this image of Mary
and her light body, your
crown is going, yeah,
yeah, I'm feeling that.
I'm into that.
In 1968, 300,000 people saw
Mary in her light body form
appear over a church in
Cairo, a Coptic Church.
Several people took photos
of this apparition, Mary
in her light body form.
Because she's a rainbow
light body being.
She can phase in
between dimensions
and go completely
physical if she wants to
or stay in her light body
form as she most often does.
She's just like
Quan Yin, remember?
That's how we started.
Quan Yin-- all that
imagery emerged from Mary.
So blessed are the pure in
heart, for they will see God.
Not some dirty, old white man
on a throne that everybody
hates or have been
so turned off by,
but they'll see God in the form
of light beings, apparitions,
full-spectrum beings.
This is another
important Catholic image.
It's called "Jesus,
I Trust in You."
The story behind this is
that there was a nun--
Saint Faustina.
She was later canonized.
In February 1931,
Jesus appeared to her
as an apparition in her
cell and stated that--
she was in her cell.
And Jesus appeared
to her, she said.
And Jesus directed her to
paint an image according
to the pattern you see.
Paint an image
according to the pattern
you see with the signature,
"Jesus, I Trust in You."
He attached many promises to
those who venerate this image.
The word venerate means to
love or adore this image.
So if you come to this image
with love, Jesus is saying,
I'm busy.
Make this painting of me.
And everybody who
looks before it will
be standing in my presence.
And I will transmit to
them, all who adore it,
the higher frequencies of
love and Christ Consciousness.
Paint an image
according to the pattern
you see with the signature
"Jesus, I Trust in You."
I desire, he said, that this
image be venerated, loved,
and adored first in your chapel,
then throughout the world.
I promise, he said, that
the soul that will venerate
this image will not perish.
The use of art as a
conduit between the sacred
and the divine, perfectly
accepted in Catholicism.
And now, we know how
it actually works
and why it actually works.
I am offering people
a vessel with which
they are to keep
coming for graces
to the fountain of mercy.
That vessel is this image
with the signature, "Jesus,
I Trust in You."
it's incredible.
Dr. Mario Martinez is
a national psychologist
who studies stigmatas for
the Vatican-- went all
around the world and
talked with people
who claim that they
received the stigmata
wounds of Christ-- the five
wounds of the crucifixion.
He demonstrated that one
woman exhibited the stigmata
after obsessively reading
about the crucifixion, right?
He says where the mind
goes, the biology follows.
Where the soul or our core
So if your soul is deeply
connecting with these images,
your biology will follow.
That's science.
That's science, OK?
The art and science
of living ascension.
This is how we do it.
By looking at art, depicting
divinity and ascended beings,
can we become whole,
holy, divine, and ascend?
Science says, yes, you can.
It was only in 1991 that
neuroscientists discovered
that new neurons are
continually being
generated in the adult
brain, this facility to--
whether by creating new
neuronal connections
or reinforcing existing ones.
It's, of course, called
brain plasticity.
You've seen Bruce Lipton.
You've seen Joe
Dispenza, Gregg Braden.
You've seen everybody
presenting this science.
I don't need to go
back into the details.
What I am going
to suggest to you
is that this is the next step.
This is why you want to do this.
It's not to manifest
a new Porsche,
or to get a new
house, or a new job,
or all of that kind of stuff.
This is why you're learning
about neuroplasticity.
This is why you're
following Joe Dispenza
and going into
deep gamma, right?
This is why you are doing this.
This is the point, OK?
The study of musicians who
have played 10,000 hours
on their instruments
have shown, for instance,
that the area of the
brain that controls
the movement of fingers had
been considerably enhanced.
What if we stared at a painting
of the "Transfiguration"
for 10,000 hours?
Science says your brain--
those centers will be activated.
Could mind training
directed at increasing
mental states such as
altruism, compassion,
inner calm, and patient
result in changes
of similar magnitude?
Absolutely.
This is what new research
is trying to investigate.
And this is what all of
these artistic traditions
have been saying.
In Korea, the paintings in
the [? Muism ?] or the Shaman
Shrine are animated images.
This is what they call
them-- animated images.
There are scholarly
papers about all this.
And most of the work that
I'm presenting to you now
are from the academic level,
from the PhD level, OK?
Where neuroscientists
or art aficionados,
scholars are looking
at this and they're
saying this is what is actually
happening with this artwork,
that these animated images are
objects entered by the gods.
When the shaman
invites them in--
another key.
If you're looking
at a transfiguration
image of Jesus or
Padmasambhava, invite them in.
Invite them in.
They're not just going
to knock on your door.
We have to invite them in.
Invite them in and who
operate through the painting.
And allow the shaman to
enter the divine realm.
What?
The divine being can enter this
realm through the painting.
And I can go to their
realm through the painting?
Yes, this is what
they're saying.
This is what they are saying.
The paintings are a divine
prosthesis an avatar
and are viewed as an
extension of the gods' ability
to move in and engage
in the mortal world.
They're busy people, right?
I'll just send a painting, OK?
I'll just send a painting.
The god who is
otherwise invisible
becomes visible
in material form,
because you've opened your heart
and location through the medium
of the painting.
This is quantum physics.
What is a painting, but a
collection of particles, dots
of paint that become waves?
Right?
This is quantum science
we're talking about.
We'll elaborate
on this as we go.
Right?
Invite them in.
I would love to have the
Amitabha Buddha in my living
room or my office.
And I do.
I just put up a painting
of him and invite him in.
Interaction with sacred
images is a form of dreaming,
rehearsal for what is to come in
a way to engage with the divine
beings.
I mean, we're not quite
ready for the Amitabha Buddha
of Infinite Light to come
walking through that door,
so we got to rehearse.
We'd be blown out
of here, right?
If the resurrected Christ
manifested in this room,
we would be blown out of
here, so we got to rehearse.
We've got to practice.
We've got to elevate our
frequency first and open
our heart to be able
to see them and then
be ready for what we're
about to experience.
In the Asian Museum
in San Francisco,
you'll see beautiful
images of Vishnu
like this one and
other Hindu images.
The placard beside
this image here
says, "These Hindu
statues installed
in various temples were
considered when consecrated,
made holy to embody
the divine presence.
Worshippers were graced by
the divine power in an image
merely by seeing the image
and at the same time,
by presenting themselves
to be seen by the divine.
In their original
settings, many images
were adorned with fine
cloths, jewels, garlands,
and sacred powders.
In worship, they were
cared and honored
with the presentation of
such items as food, incense,
flowers, and befitting royal
or honored guests, because they
are living images."
This is what a
living image means.
So here's Vishnu.
He's standing here.
He's present.
And we are now present
before Vishnu as well.
This is a tanka that was part of
the "Secrets of Tibet" exhibit
from the Newark museum.
Came to Nashville
a couple years ago.
Claire and I went through it,
I think, 4,000 times in two
months, just to absorb it.
Here's the placard
beside this one.
It's the "Diamond
World Mandala."
In the center, we see
the Vairocana Buddha,
the shining one.
And then the second
paragraph says,
"The ritual use of
this painting provides
portals of interaction
between participants
and these assembled divinities."
Imagine the most powerful
members of the Pantheon
as your captive audience.
Now, for some people, that would
just go right over their heads
if you're in an
exhibit reading that.
But from our
perspective, we know
exactly what that means now.
This is literally a portal.
The Vairocana Buddha is present.
We are seeing him.
He is-- or she is seeing us.
Metropolitan Museum
of Art features
these raigo, or welcoming
descent paintings,
of the Amitabha Buddha of
infinite Light descending along
with a group of bodhisattvas
from the pure land
to take his soul back to the
pure land on the lotus throne.
The placard says, "The
scrolls were often hung
by the bedside of the dying to
ensure the prospect of rebirth
and paradise.
Sometimes silken cords were
attached to Buddha's hand,
offering the dying physical
existence during the journey
to paradise."
Hello?
They attach a silken
court to the painting.
The soul comes out of the
body, grabs a silken cord, off
it goes to the pure land
through the painting.
How many examples
of this do we need
to see, before we
really let it sink in
that this is the key
to our ascension,
that there is some
higher dimensional
reality in which
these beings dwell,
that we can connect with
through the painting?
According to the gnostics,
in order to converge
or beam through all that is,
we need a chariot to ride upon,
a heavenly lotus throne.
And we need a beaming garment.
And this is what this
art is designed to do.
It's to give us a new
scientific view of how
we attain our
rainbow light body,
our perfect garment of
light through visualization,
through connecting
with the image.
And we've seen this
message over and over
again today, crossing over from
the Buddhist, to the Christian,
to the Hindu, to the
Tibetan tradition.
I can cite more
Egyptian examples.
I can cite you Mayan examples.
And the explanation for how this
works is quantum entanglement.
When two particles are
entangled, they are connected.
A measurement on one immediately
changes the state of the other,
no matter how far
apart they are.
Einstein himself thought
this phenomena was so crazy.
It was spooky.
And there was no way it
could possibly be true,
but it is true.
We have proven this now.
And it implies that everything
in the universe is connected.
And if there was a
Big Bang, it happened
when all physical matter was
one and then exploded out
into little pieces that
spread throughout the cosmos.
So in the beginning, you,
and me, and Vairocana Buddha,
the Amitabha Buddha of Infinite
Light, Christ, Padmasambhava--
were all one.
That means we're entangled.
That means, instantaneously,
Padmasambhava
can send or transmit
a message to us
across dimensions, across
galaxies instantaneously.
So I'm going to leave
you with an image here
of Pallas Athena, created
by Sandro Bottivelli,
after the Medici family had
spent a huge amount of money
trying to recover the secrets
of original Christianity.
We see Pallas Athena in her
transparent linen garment
symbolic of her light body.
She's got
diamond-tipped nipples.
She's got a diamond
on her crown chakra.
What happens when
sunlight hits a diamond?
Don't you see a rainbow prism?
Yeah, this is how--
another way of encoding
the rainbow light body.
And she's got the symbol
of quantum entanglement
all over her robe,
which actually
became the logo of the Medici
family and also Michelangelo.
So they clearly had tapped
into some extraordinary mystic
secrets.
And they encoded this
in their sacred art.
And here, you see the diamond
tip on Athena's crown chakra.
So it's a very good example
of the divine feminine
exemplifying or modeling
the light body and quantum
entanglement.
So I want to thank Quan
Yin for opening our hearts,
opening our way to this.
I want to thank you for
being there to receive it.
[APPLAUSE]
Oh, thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
[MUSIC PLAYING]